Making EM RS5+. Limiting the tracking capability to Windows11+ (Spec) (#2544)
microsoft/WindowsAppSDK: specs/AppLifecycle/EnvironmentVariables/AppLifecycle - Environment Variables (EV).md

that provide partially overlapping functionality, and with some gaps. This spec
describes the Reunion support for environment variables.

> Important Note: The EV tracking feature relies on other platform features which are only

Reviewer: 'EV' isn't defined. Always define acronyms on first use

SUGGESTION: `The Environment Variables (EV) tracking feature...`

Author: It is defined in the title of the md.  Should I also define it in the document?

Reviewer: > It is defined in the title of the md. Should I also define it in the document?

Lolz! I didn't even notice it in the filename! Though it's not in the title (line 1) so perhaps just add it there

available from Windows 21H1+ (i.e. version >=10.0.19043.0). An app can check the 

> IsChangeTrackingSupported property to determine whether the current device supports the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
IsChangeTrackingSupported property to determine whether the environment manager supports the 
```
The ability to do change tracking is a property of the environment, not of the device.

life of the process in the user profile or system profile.

> Unpackaged apps can use the existing native Win32 Get/SetEnvironment and

Reviewer 3: Curious why the .NET APIs get links, but the Win32 ones don't?

Author: Oversight.

Author: Added.

> registry APIs. Unpackaged .NET apps can use [System.Environment](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.environment?view=net-6.0) class, and

Reviewer 3: Remove /en-us/ from links. Repeat everywhere.

Author: Removed.

specifically the methods [GetEnvironmentVariable](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.environment.getenvironmentvariable?view=net-6.0), 
[GetEnvironmentVariables](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.environment.getenvironmentvariables?view=net-6.0)
and [SetEnvironmentVariable](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.environment.setenvironmentvariable?view=net-6.0).

> We are introducing the new API so non-fulltrust apps can access the same functionality.

Reviewer 3: Not sure why you call out "non-fulltrust" apps. Any app (Win32, UWP, full-trust MSIX, etc.) can use either the native or .NET APIs. They might not work given access controls (e.g. UWP can't write HKCU; non-elevated can't write HKLM) but this new API doesn't change that.

Author: I see.  This was ahold over from Project Reunion with UWP support.  EM allowed UWP apps to read EV's at the user and machine scope.

But, no more UWP.  I'll take this out.

> restricted capability and has suppressed registry write virtualization for HKCU.

Reviewer 3: Newer versions of the OS allow specific keys to be (un)virtualized, so you can poke a hole just for the environment if you like.

An unpackaged or packaged Win32 (Desktop Bridge) app can write to HKLM if the
app is running elevated. In the normal case,

> where virtualization is not disabled, all writes to HKCU actually go to a

Reviewer 3: This is confusing since this is about both packaged and unpackaged. Also using a double-negative (not disabled). I think the deleted table was clearer. Do we even need to list the implementation detail of where the private hive is located?

Author: I removed both paragraphs.  I kept the "Moving forward, the new APIs..." table.  The  text I deleted wasn't directly related to EM, and more "Here is windows' implementation."

private hive file similar to:
%ProgramData%\Packages\<PackageFamilyName>\<Security ID>\SystemAppData\Helium

Moving forward, the new APIs will enable the following behaviors:

| App Type       | API Type | Process Vars | User Vars   | Machine Vars |
| -------------- | -------- | ------------ | ----------- | ------------ |

> | Unpackaged     | Managed  | Read, Write  | Read, Write | Read, Write  |

Reviewer 3: The API is WinRT, not managed

unvirtualizedResources feature in a pure UWP app makes no difference to this.
However, you can use the managed Registry APIs to read at User scope (but not at
Machine scope), and p/invoke to the native registry APIs to read at both User
and Machine scope.

Moving forward, the new APIs will enable the following behaviors:

| App Type       | API Type | Process Vars | User Vars   | Machine Vars |
| -------------- | -------- | ------------ | ----------- | ------------ |
| Unpackaged     | Managed  | Read, Write  | Read, Write | Read, Write  |
| Desktop Bridge | Managed  | Read, Write  | Read, Write | Read, Write  |

> | UWP            | Managed  | Read, Write  | Read        | Read         |

Reviewer 3: So UWP is cut? Do you need to mention `windows.partialTrustApplication` instead?

Reviewer 4: The Windows App SDK cut UWP support long ago. Which makes this table pretty useless. I believe @DrusTheAxe mentioned that some time ago but alas the table is still here.

Reviewer 3: Got it. Partial trust is still a thing though so should be mentioned in any discussing of access rights.

Reviewer 4: I don't think WAS supports any partial trust scenarios?

Reviewer 5: We support appcontainers, just not CoreWindow.  UWP is MSIX+AppContainer+Lifecycle+CoreWindow.  I'd _like_ to get us to a point where we can support MSIX+AppContainer+Lifecycle+HWNDs.  The "partial trust application" is MSIX+AppContainer+NoLifecycle+HWNDs, so it's _so close_

Reviewer 5: This API, when used by a partial-trust app, would then only modify its own environment block - rather than the user-wide one.

Author: Should I re-add the UWP row and rename it to "Partial-Trust"?

> environment variables does not need any special security consideration. Writing

Reviewer 3: This section is out of place. We're not introducing any new security measures; we just rely on the OS. Suggest cutting it?

        static EnvironmentManager GetForCurrentUser();
        static EnvironmentManager GetForMachine();
        static bool IsSupported { get; }
        

>         bool IsChangeTrackingSupported  {get; };

Reviewer: Should be

```c# (closest to midl3)
[apicontract(AppLifecycle, 3)]
bool IsChangeTrackingSupported {get; };
```

???
